[WIP] A11y article (#273)
unicorn-utterances/unicorn-utterances: content/blog/intro-to-web-accessability/index.md

---
{
    title: "Introduction to Web Accessibility (A11Y)",
    description: "",
    published: '2021-05-30T22:12:03.284Z',
    authors: ['crutchcorn'],
    tags: ['a11y', 'javascript', 'web'],
    attached: [],
    license: 'coderpad',
    originalLink: 'https://coderpad.io/blog/introduction-to-accessibility/'
}
---

If you're coming across this article and haven't heard about "accessibility" (often shortened to "A11Y") before, that's okay. We're all learning at different speeds and come across new things all the time. That said, accessibility is a critical component of any frontend engineer's responsibilities. We implore you to explore what that means, not just in this blog post but beyond with your teams and communities.

First, let's define what "accessibility" is. Accessibility in engineering is ["the process of creating products that are usable by people with the widest possible range of abilities."](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2596695.2596719)

> You may have vision-impaired or blind users of your app. These users may rely on [screen readers](https://www.afb.org/blindness-and-low-vision/using-technology/assistive-technology-products/screen-readers), which allows users to navigate their computer with their sense of hearing. These methods may be used in tandem with the visual experience for some users or used independently to navigate their computer auditorily.

Author: Oh, this call out for "impaired" is fantastic. I did a lot of research (and actually asked in the A11Y slack) about the language around the term "people with disabilities" but never actually thought to introspect on the phrasing "impaired" due to a deep misunderstanding of preferred terms. In hindsight, it makes perfect sense, even with my own thoughts and views on ablist language.

Thanks a bunch for catching this!

As for "users" becoming dehumanizing, I understand that to a degree, but am not sure how much I can do in this article without becoming overly verbose. I definitely want to include "people that use your app" a few times, but don't know if this will make it to every instance. FWIW, this problem seems to extend past A11Y as I'd use similar "users" language when talking about other application functionality/design outside of accessibility discussions as well

> You may have vision-impaired or blind users of your app. These users may rely on [screen readers](https://www.afb.org/blindness-and-low-vision/using-technology/assistive-technology-products/screen-readers), which allows users to navigate their computer with their sense of hearing. These methods may be used in tandem with the visual experience for some users or used independently to navigate their computer auditorily.

Author: For anyone that might catch this thread in the future, curious about some of the research done:

- [Brown university has a great guide on appropriate terminology](https://www.brown.edu/campus-life/support/accessibility-services/resources-teaching-students-disabilities/appropriate-terminology)
- [Apple uses the term "people with disabilities"](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2021/05/apple-previews-powerful-software-updates-designed-for-people-with-disabilities/)
- [Conversation in A11Y slack](https://web-a11y.slack.com/archives/C042TSFGN/p1621931053327600)

(I admittedly don't remember the other places I looked, these instances stood out to me)

> You may have vision-impaired or blind users of your app. These users may rely on [screen readers](https://www.afb.org/blindness-and-low-vision/using-technology/assistive-technology-products/screen-readers), which allows users to navigate their computer with their sense of hearing. These methods may be used in tandem with the visual experience for some users or used independently to navigate their computer auditorily.

Reviewer: Absolutely!

And I think the only places that really call out to switch user is where I suggested it.

You may also have users with limited mobility who utilizes buttons to trigger different behaviors on their machine.

> If you're a visual learner who would like to see some short-and-quick workflows from users like this, [one of Apple's ads](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XB4cjbYywqg) displays a few use cases that proper accessibility support can enable.

> Something to keep in mind is that these disabilities may not be permanent. For example, if you fall and break your arm, you may be only using one arm while healing. Likewise, there are situational impairments as well. A new parent may have to hold their child while trying to do things. Here's a chart that outlines a few more of these examples:

Author: Hmm, I admittedly didn't consider the familial status angle here. We can definitely use these examples - I'll add in the next draft edit

> Something to keep in mind is that these disabilities may not be permanent. For example, if you fall and break your arm, you may be only using one arm while healing. Likewise, there are situational impairments as well. A new parent may have to hold their child while trying to do things. Here's a chart that outlines a few more of these examples:

Author: Actually, making the edit currently and I realize I want to keep the "one arm" example consistent. I think something like "holding a coffee cup in one hand" might be a good example of that situationally

> Something to keep in mind is that these disabilities may not be permanent. For example, if you fall and break your arm, you may be only using one arm while healing. Likewise, there are situational impairments as well. A new parent may have to hold their child while trying to do things. Here's a chart that outlines a few more of these examples:

Author: ```suggestion
Something to keep in mind is that these disabilities may not be permanent. For example, if you fall and break your arm, you may be only using one arm while healing. Likewise, there are situational impairments as well. If you're holding a cup of coffee in one hand, you'll only be using the other for device usage. Here's a chart that outlines a few more of these examples:
```

	  <th></th>
		<th scope="col">Permanent</th>
		<th scope="col">Temporary</th>
		<th scope="col">Situational</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th scope="row">Touch</th>
		<td><img src="./one_arm.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>One arm</td>
		<td><img src="./arm_injury.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Arm injury</td>
		<td><img src="./new_parent.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>New parent</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th scope="row">See</th>
		<td><img src="./blind.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Blind</td>
		<td><img src="./cataract.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Cataract</td>
		<td><img src="./distracted_driver.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Distracted driver</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th scope="row">Hear</th>
		<td><img src="./deaf.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Deaf</td>
		<td><img src="./ear_infection.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Ear infection</td>
		<td><img src="./bartender.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Bartender</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th scope="row">Speak</th>
		<td><img src="./non_verbal.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Non-verbal</td>
		<td><img src="./laryngitis.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Laryngitis</td>

> 		<td><img src="./heavy_accent.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Heavy accent</td>

Author: I hadn't considered the figure caption until you pointed it out. I intentionally wanted to hide the image with the `alt=""`, but you're probably right in that the figure caption would work better. I'll refactor

> 		<td><img src="./heavy_accent.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Heavy accent</td>

Reviewer: The `alt` situation makes sense, but something is adding the alt text to the live site

> 		<td><img src="./heavy_accent.png" style="height: 200px" alt=""/><br/>Heavy accent</td>

Reviewer: Looks good to me!

	</tr>
</table>

> Microsoft originally created this chart as part of their [Inclusive Toolkit](https://download.microsoft.com/download/b/0/d/b0d4bf87-09ce-4417-8f28-d60703d672ed/inclusive_toolkit_manual_final.pdf) manual

Creating an application that's accessible means that you're making a better experience for _all_ of your users, ready for any context they might be using your app in.

> In addition to the moral and financial incentives (by opening the door to more users), many organizations have a legal requirement to meet accessibility. U.S. government software is subject to [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/manage/laws-and-policies), which requires compliance to [the WCAG guidelines (which we'll touch on later)](#wcag). Likewise, private US companies may be subject to compliance due to the "Americans with Disabilities Act" (shortened to "ADA"). The U.S. isn't the only country with these requirements, either. According to [WCAG's reference page for various legal laws](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/), there are at least 40 such laws in place around the world.  

Author: I meant to do this and must've forgotten when actually writing the draft. Thanks for the highlight here

> In addition to the moral and financial incentives (by opening the door to more users), many organizations have a legal requirement to meet accessibility. U.S. government software is subject to [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/manage/laws-and-policies), which requires compliance to [the WCAG guidelines (which we'll touch on later)](#wcag). Likewise, private US companies may be subject to compliance due to the "Americans with Disabilities Act" (shortened to "ADA"). The U.S. isn't the only country with these requirements, either. According to [WCAG's reference page for various legal laws](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/), there are at least 40 such laws in place around the world.  

Author: Didn't get a chance to read through the edit during the last review, but I love the way this was written. A huge improvement to the flow of the section - thanks so much

> Please note that we are _not_ giving legal advice. This article is simply meant for educational purposes for individuals. Consult legal authorities for the appropriate jurisdiction

> Accessibility isn't a pure science, however. If you're sighted, this may be an abstract idea at first. However, think of it like this: the colors an app uses or a button's visual placement may convey different messages and meanings depending on their context. This same problem applies to users of screen-readers and other accessible tech as well, just with different constraints. Having the screen visually cluttered, thus making content difficult to read, might be a similar experience to having a site where the footer's contents are inexplicably read before the main page's content.

Author: ```suggestion
Accessibility isn't a pure science, however. If you're sighted, this may be an abstract idea at first. However, think of it like this: the colors an app uses or a button's visual placement may convey different messages and meanings depending on their context. This same problem applies to users of screen-readers and other accessible tech as well, just with different constraints. If the screen is visually cluttered, the content may be more difficult to read. Likewise, different accessibility methods will lead to different experiences for users of assistive technology. In both of these scenarios, there may not be objectively correct answers - some may prefer a button placed visually to the left, while others might advocate for it on the right. Similarly, how something is read using a screen reader may make sense to some, but might be confusingly expressed to others.
```

Edited to explain _why_ I'm talking about this a bit more and clean up some of the phrasing

# Sensible Standards {#wcag}

> While accessibility has some levels of subjectivity involved, it's important to note that there _are_ standards surrounding web application's accessibility support. ["Web Content Accessibility Guidelines"](https://www.w3.org/WAI/) (shortened to "WCAG") are guidelines to follow when considering your app's accessibility.  These guidelines are published by  a subgroup of the [World Wide Web Consortium](https://www.w3.org/) (shortened to "W3C"). W3C is the main international standards organization for the Internet. WCAG acts as the de-facto guidelines for A11Y.

Author: Unfortunately, part of the rationale for "A11Y" in a few places in the article is for SEO :/ Not happy about that, but I want to try to surface this content for those looking for terms they may have seen elsewhere. What I might do is link to the section in the article that mentions this acronym when it's used, although that might get tiring/repetitive... Not happy with many of the options here.

What do you think?

> While accessibility has some levels of subjectivity involved, it's important to note that there _are_ standards surrounding web application's accessibility support. ["Web Content Accessibility Guidelines"](https://www.w3.org/WAI/) (shortened to "WCAG") are guidelines to follow when considering your app's accessibility.  These guidelines are published by  a subgroup of the [World Wide Web Consortium](https://www.w3.org/) (shortened to "W3C"). W3C is the main international standards organization for the Internet. WCAG acts as the de-facto guidelines for A11Y.

Reviewer: I disagree that the accessibility of an accessibility article should be based on SEO, but I cannot find much usage of a11y being used as a search term.

https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?geo=US&q=a11y,web%20accessibility,web%20a11y,accessibility,ease%20of%20use

There is the `<abbr>` element, but it's not the most accessible by default, so I would stick with being explicit.

There are different scales of accessibility as well. [WCAG includes three different levels of conformance](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2AA-Conformance):

> - Level A is the minimum level.
> - Level AA includes all Level A and AA requirements. Many organizations strive to meet Level AA.
> - Level AAA includes all Level A, AA, and AAA requirements.

> Meeting AA requirements is typically seen as a good commitment to accessibility, but AAA will open more doors to your users and is the gold standard for accessible UX. 

Author: TIL WCAG 3 naming lol

Whoops! Right 😅 I'll spell out "UX"

> Far from a comprehensive list, AA covers things like:

Author: I definitely want to include more than one example from level A - what other ones do you think would be good/most relevant to highlight?

> Far from a comprehensive list, AA covers things like:

Reviewer: 1.1.1 Non-text Content and 2.1.1 Keyboard are other great guidelines to reference from level A that are easy to understand

- Screen reader experience
- [Minimum contrast guidelines](#contrast)
- [Text resize support](#font-resize)
- [Video captions](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#captions-live)
- [Basic support for keyboard navigation](#keyboard)

Meanwhile, AAA includes support for:

> - [High contrast mode](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#contrast-enhanced)

Author: Mmm... I didn't realize these limitations :/ I'll rephrase

> - [High contrast mode](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#contrast-enhanced)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Enhanced contrast](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#contrast-enhanced)
```

- [Reduced/restricted animations](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#animation-from-interactions)
- [Video sign language support](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#sign-language-prerecorded)
- [Full website functionality with keyboard](#keyboard)

> Among other things.

Author: I honestly didn't know this was a thing! I was looking for this while writing the article and couldn't find it! This is super super helpful, thanks a bunch!

# Smartly using Semantic HTML Tags {#html-semantic-tags}

One of the easiest things you can do for your application's accessibility is to use semantic HTML tags. 

Let's say we have HTML to display fruits in a list:

```html
<div>
    <div>Orange</div>
    <div>Banana</div>
    <div>Grapefruit</div>
</div>
```

While this will display the contents, and you may be able to use CSS to add styling to make this look like a list, the browser has no way of knowing that this is a list. This is reflected in how screen-readers read that HTML output.

<video src="./div.mp4" width="100%" height="auto" preload="auto" title="Voiceover reading of the content above"  controls></video>

Likewise, search engine crawlers won't know that this is a list. If you're only using `div` tags as far as Google's concerned, you have no lists, no headings, nothing. This makes the page significantly less engaging and therefore rank more poorly.

Let's compare that to using the correct HTML tags for a list.

```html

> <ul aria-label="List of fruits">

Author: I always forget this 🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️🤦‍♀️ I seriously need to sit down and just find all of the A11Y copy resources I can, cuz I suuuuuck at it right now and it's a (frankly embarrassing) hole in my knowledge

> <ul aria-label="List of fruits">

Reviewer: No worries at all we all have gaps. I really relate to [this thread on accessibility Twitter](https://twitter.com/annaecook/status/1391823766171262976?s=20)

# Understand `aria-` properties {#aria}

In our previous example, we used an HTML attribute [`aria-label`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques/Using_the_aria-label_attribute) on our `ul`. [ARIA is collection of HTML attributes that allow you to enhance the accessibility in applications](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA). That said, _**it is highly encouraged to use the suggested HTML tags instead of `aria` attributes whenever possible**_. Think of `aria` as a complex low level API that can enhance your experience when done properly, but drastically harm user experience when unproperly utilized.

A super small small subsection of `aria-` attributes includes:

- [`aria-labelledby`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques/Using_the_aria-labelledby_attribute) - Associate the element with another element's text as the label 
- `aria-expanded` - A Boolean value meant to communicate when a dropdown is expanded
- `aria-valuemin` - The minimum allowed value in a numerical input
- `aria-valuemax` - The maximum allowed value of a numerical input

> Additional to `aria` props, [the `role` property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques#roles) acts to have the browser see and read an element as a different one. Again, this is a highly advanced (and often incorrectly deployed) API for complex apps. To learn more, [read through Mozilla's ARIA basics article.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/WAI-ARIA_basics)

Reviewer 2: I would think "role" is more akin to having the browser read a tag and understand its intended purpose for a user's interaction. It's not really a different element, it's an element with a specific prpose.

> Additional to `aria` props, [the `role` property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques#roles) acts to have the browser see and read an element as a different one. Again, this is a highly advanced (and often incorrectly deployed) API for complex apps. To learn more, [read through Mozilla's ARIA basics article.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/WAI-ARIA_basics)

Reviewer: I think this was mostly the wording of `acts to have the browser see and read an element as a different one`. Maybe update the verbiage? @crutchcorn

> # Contrast is Cool {#contrast}

Reviewer: I just noticed this. You should only have one h1 element for the title of the page. You should increase all non-frontmatter headings by one or write a transformer that does the same thing at build time, and errors on h6 -> h7.

Author: Yeah, this needs to be a larger change on UU. I want to make that a separate PR from this one, as I think we need to rework all of our other articles to work with this as well (some use H2, some use H1, let's standardize on `#` -> H2)

<img alt="Dark gray text on a black background" src="./color_fail.png" style="max-width: 600px; width: 100%"/>

Now, compare that to highly contrasting colors: 

<img alt="White text on a black background" src="./color_pass.png" style="max-width: 600px; width: 100%"/>

The contents are not only easier to distinguish from the background, but it's made easier to focus on as a result of the increased contrast.

This said, not all contrasts are the same. Per [WCAG guidelines](#wcag), you may have a different ratio of contrast for different compliance levels. These contrast ratios depend on both font size as well as compliance level.

![Light grey text passing AA for large text, but not small text](./pass_aa_large.png)

In this example you can see that the text passes the WCAG AA requirements for large text, but fails the same requirements for small text.

# Fantastic Fonts {#font-resize}

One of the most widely used accessibility features is font scaling. While many browsers default to a font size of `16px`, the user is actually able to change settings on their device to configure websites to use a larger font size.

> Many phones using iOS and Android allow users to change the font size on their mobile devices. This feature is heyso commonplace that it often prompts users to change this setting when the phone is being set up.

Author: What even happened here? LOL

Great catch

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-around">
    <figure>
		<img src="./ios_text_size.png" style="height: 300px" alt=""/>
        <figcaption>
            iOS font size settings screen
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
    <figure>

>         <img src="./android_text_size.png" style="height: 300px" alt=""/>

Reviewer: My SR reads out the src attribute here. This is only a UU issue. Is Gatsby messing with the alt?

Author: Oh dear, it certainly is:

```
<img class="gatsby-resp-image-image medium-zoom-image" alt="android text size" title="android text size" src="/static/4a59c35d2d537f47a62e561e3c49f22a/fcda8/android_text_size.png">
```

I'll take a look at the `gatsby-medium-zoom` plugin. We've had to fork in the past, so I'm sure we'll be able to get this fixed. Thanks a million for the callout.

This might delay how quickly we can deploy this article, but we've got to wait for it to be published on CoderPad anyway so I'll try to sync those releases

        <figcaption>
            Android font size settings screen
        </figcaption>
    </figure>
</div>

Not only do you have these settings on mobile devices, but they're available on desktop as well. 

Using Chrome, go to [your settings page](chrome://settings/?search=font+size), and you should be able to set your font size.

![Font settings in Chrome](./chrome_font_size.png)

You can do the same in Firefox in [your preferences](about:preferences#general).

![Font settings in Firefox](./firefox_font_size.png)

## Implementation {#font-rem}

> While browsers have the ability to set the font size, if you're using `px`, `vw`, `vh`, or other unit values for your fonts, the browser will not update these font sizes for you. In order to have your application rescale the font size to match the browser settings, you'll need to use the `rem` unit.

Reviewer: `em` is a critical length unit relative to the parent element. Is it possible to add this to this section?

Author: I understand `em`'s usage, but don't understand its usage in context to A11Y - could you teach me? How do you see it being mentioned/added? (don't mind if you wanna do over DMs, since GH issues is far from expedient)

Reviewer: `em`s are used similarly to `rem`s, so I want to make sure `you'll need to use the `rem` unit` doesn't imply that em is off the table. Not sure the exact solution or if that's a tangent though

Author: The only reason I tend to avoid mentioning `em` is because they _are_ relative to the parent. Because of this, teams looking to do incremental migration away from `px` to properly sizing fonts may pick `em` and not realize that this doesn't fix the issue. I personally prefer to default to `rem` anyway, then use `em` when contextually relevant

At either rate, I think that `rem` acts as a decent default with less nuance required than `em`, and explaining further might be out of context for this particular article

You can think of `rem` as a multiplier to apply to the default font size. When the browser's font size is set to `16px`:

- `1rem` will be `16px` (1 * 16px)
- `1.5rem` will be `24px` (1.5 * 16px)
- `3rem` will be `48px` (3 * 16px)

Likewise, when the browser's font size is set to `20px`:

- `1rem` will be `20px` (1 * 20px)
- `1.5rem` will be `30px` (1.5 * 20px)
- `3rem` will be `60px` (3 * 20px)

> > Something to keep in mind is that `rem` is a _relative_ font size. It's relative to the root element's font size. _This means that you cannot set a default `px` value font size in `:root`  , as it will disable font scaling, even if the rest of your page is using `rem` values._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Something to keep in mind is that `rem` is a _relative_ font size. It's relative to the root element's font size. _This means that you cannot set a default `px` value font size in CSS to the `<html>` tag, as it will disable font scaling, even if the rest of your page is using `rem` values._
```

Reviewer: While the `:root` selector does affect the HTML tag, most people apply their font sizes to the tag directly

Author: I want to mention both, actually 😅 I've had someone that knew about `HTML` but fought me on the `:root` usage.

Reviewer: Hahaha that sounds like a _fun_ experience. Go for both!

Author: ```suggestion
> Something to keep in mind is that `rem` is a _relative_ font size. It's relative to the root element's font size. _This means that you cannot set a default `px` value font size in CSS to the `<html>` tag or to the `:root` selector, as it will disable font scaling, even if the rest of your page is using `rem` values._
```

> It's highly encouraged to keep font sizes standardized around the `1rem` value. While this may seem like a frustrating limitation at first, see it from the user's perspective.

Reviewer: Font sizes can be larger, e.g. for heading or callouts. Maybe say body text size or minimum?

Author: I originally had the language "minimum", but changed it for various reasons. I'll change to "body text size" as I think that fits better and call out that they can be larger

Author: ```suggestion
It's highly encouraged to keep body text size standardized around the `1rem` value. While this may seem like a frustrating limitation at first, see it from the user's perspective. Font sizes can, of course, be larger than this for things like headers or callouts, but the primary content of your site should default to this sizing.
```

Say site "A" sets their font size to `1rem`, and site "B" sets their font size to `0.8rem`. When the user switches from "A" to "B", the font size drastically decreases, requiring the user to change their font size. Then, when they switch back to site "A", they're left with too large of font size. By respecting the user's setting of font size, you're ensuring that their experience jumping from site to site is more consistent and a nicer experience.

Want to learn more about `rem` and font sizing? [Take a look at this in-depth blog post that covers even more](https://www.24a11y.com/2019/pixels-vs-relative-units-in-css-why-its-still-a-big-deal/).

# Keyboard is King {#keyboard}

> Just as developers have preferences with keyboard or mouse, so too do your end-users. Some users may only be able to utilize the keyboard to navigate the digital world. Not only is keyboard navigation critical for accessibility, but it enables power users of your application to be more efficient as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just as developers have preferences with keyboard or mouse, so too do your end-users. Some people may only be able to utilize the keyboard to navigate the digital world. Not only is keyboard navigation critical for accessibility, but it enables power users of your application to be more efficient as well.
```

While you may immediately think of "keyboard shortcuts" to trigger different applications, it's often easy to forget about smaller interactions as well.

> This isn't to say that keyboard shortcuts aren't helpful - they can serve as shorthand for operations that might otherwise take considerable more effort using only the keyboard. Do consider implementing them in your app when they make sense.

Consider a site with a large number of navigation links like [The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/).

> ![The initial homepage of New York Times](./nyt_initial.png)

Reviewer: Nice job removing distracting and political content

Their site has 30+ individual items in their header that you'd need to tab through in order to get to the main portion of the website. Safe to say that most users of the site are likely to want to access that main content quickly. Additionally, users that rely on a screen reader that aren't familiar with the site's layout wouldn't know when to stop tabbing without slogging through every item in the header.

As such, many sites (including New York Times) include a "Skip to Content" button that doesn't become visible until you've tabbed into it. Unless you were navigating the site by keyboard, you wouldn't know it was there.

> ![A "skip to content" button shown on the New York Times' site](./nyt_skip.png)

Reviewer: This is very small, maybe include a suggestion about using the lightbox or including a zoomed version?

This is far from the only considerations that should be made when considering a site's keyboard navigability, but is a prime example of a solution to a problem that might not be immediately obvious to users that primarily use the mouse.

## Focus Indicators {#focus-indicator}

> Something to keep in mind is that not all keyboard users are going to be using screen-readers. Because of this, it's important to have an outline around the element you're currently focused on. Without this outline, how would you know where you are on the page without the help of a screen-reader?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Something to keep in mind is that not all keyboard users are going to be using screen readers. Because of this, it's important to have an outline around the element you're currently focused on. Without this outline, how would a sighted person know where they are on the page?
```

> Imagine trying to use your mouse without being able to see your cursor or hover effects on elements - it would be nearly impossible to know what you were doing!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imagine trying to use your mouse without being able to see your cursor or hover effects on elements — it would be nearly impossible to know what you were doing!
```

- Style the element in some other way to indicate focus (avoid only using colors to differentiate, as colorblind users may not be able to distinguish the differences)
- Use JavaScript to disable the behavior when mouse-events are detected (and re-enable if keyboard events are detected)

To learn more about the focus indicator and how to work alongside it, [check out this blog post from The A11Y Project](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/2013-01-25-never-remove-css-outlines/).

# Humans Can’t Be Automated {#no-automation}

The perception for some is that accessibility is something that can be 1:1 adapted from an existing design. This is often untrue. You may want to add a "Skip to contents" button that only shows up with tabbing for some sites, while the visual order and tab order might need to be flipped for a better experience for screen-reader users. Remember, accessibility is a form of user experience that has to be crafted by hand. Each decision has nuance to it, and there are rarely objectives of which experience is better than others. Because of this, many companies will have dedicated accessibility specialists alongside their design and engineering teams.

> You also need to make sure to [test your application](#testing) as you would any other part of your app. We'll touch on this more in a future section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to make sure to [test your application](#testing) as you would any other part of your app. Automation is helpful here, but humans are still critical. We'll touch on this more in a future section.
```

> If anyone is ever advertising to you that your project can be made accessible without any changes to your codebase: they're either lying to you or don't understand accessibility properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If anyone is ever advertising to you that your project that didn't account for accessibility can be made accessible or prevent lawsuits without any changes to your codebase, they're either lying to you or don't understand accessibility.
```

Author: Great callback to legal repercussions

Author: ```suggestion
If anyone is ever advertising to you that your inaccessible project can be made accessible (or prevent lawsuits) without any changes to your codebase, they're either lying to you or don't understand accessibility.
```

Super minor change here.

## Assistance is Amicable {#eslint}

While full automation will never be possible for improving a project's accessibility, not everyone proposing assistance in the process is trying to sell snake oil. 

For example, [Deque's open-source Axe project](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core) can help identify issues such as common HTML semantic errors, contrast problems, and more. There are even libraries that help integrate Axe into your project's linters, such as one for React called [`eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y`](https://github.com/jsx-eslint/eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y).

However, keep in mind that these tools are not infallible and are meant to supplement accessibility experts working with your engineering team, not replace them.

# Test, Test, Test Again {#testing}

Testing is a critical component of any application release. Whether using automated testing solutions or QA teams, they help ensure that your users are getting the best experience possible without regressions in an application's behavior.

> As a developer working on the front end, you should be regularly turning on a screen-reader to analyze your site and navigating your application [with only your keyboard](#keyboard). This will help enforce the feedback loop between building the functionality and getting it shipped to users. Make it part of your PR review process - have other members of your team test with a screen-reader as they would visually analyze new features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a developer working on the frontend, you should be regularly using an assistive technology like a screen reader to analyze your site and navigating your application [with only your keyboard](#keyboard). This will help enforce the feedback loop between building the functionality and getting it shipped to users. Make it part of your code review process — have other members of your team test with a screen reader as they would visually analyze new features.
```

> You're also able to include automated tests that will help with A11Y regressions. Either using [integration tests](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/write-tests) or e2e tests, you can use real-world behavior such as "search for an element with this label" or "tab over to this button" to ensure your application is functioning as intended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're also able to include automated tests that will help with accessibility regressions. Either using [integration tests](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/write-tests) or end-to-end tests, you can use real-world behavior such as "search for an element with this label" or "tab over to this button" to ensure your application is functioning as intended.
```

> As mentioned in [a previous section](#no-automation), the process to make your app accessible cannot be fully automated. This extends to testing as well. While real-world automated tests are fine and well, you need someone to experience the application on a broader scale to make sure the experience is as fluid as it can be. While a specific component might be accessible by default, perhaps in specific usages, it falls flat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in [a previous section](#no-automation), the process to make your app accessible cannot be fully automated. This extends to testing as well. While real-world automated tests are fine and well, you need someone to experience the application on a broader scale to make sure the experience is as fluid as it can be. While a specific component might be accessible by default, perhaps in specific usages, it falls flat. [Displaying an accessibility statement](https://www.w3.org/WAI/planning/statements/) while transforming your users' reported problems into bug tickets and performing user testing with disabled users are great ways to close the loop with the real people affected.
```

Author: I hadn't heard of A11Y statements before! I love this idea for UU in particular - where do you think we should display this statement? In our about page? In the README with a link to a dedicated `.md` file?

# Fantastic Features {#features}

While there is plenty you can do to make existing functionality accessibility friendly, it's often forgotten that a strongly accessible app may opt to add specific functionality for its users with disabilities.

> Some great examples of things like this are sites with lots of user-generated content. For example, Twitter allows its users to [add "alt" text to their uploaded images and GIFs](https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/picture-descriptions). Likewise, YouTube has the ability to [add subtitles and captions](https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2734796?hl=en) to uploaded videos on their platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some great examples of things like this are sites with lots of user-generated content. For example, Twitter allows its users to [add alternative (alt) text to their uploaded images and GIFs](https://help.twitter.com/en/using-twitter/picture-descriptions). Likewise, YouTube has the ability to [add subtitles and captions](https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/2734796?hl=en) to uploaded videos on their platform. 
```

> Oftentimes, you'll find that these features benefit everyone, not just assistive technology users. You may want to watch a video in a crowded area; with closed captions, that's a much easier sell than trying to hear over others and interrupting everyone around you.

Reviewer: Love this callback to situational disabilities! I think tieing this sort of example at the start would be awesome as mentioned in the other thread.

# Conclusion {#conclusion}

We hope you've enjoyed learning from our accolade-worthy alliterative headlines.

There are so many things that we wanted to include in this article but couldn't. Like most parts of engineering, the field of accessible design and the nuances within can be incredibly complex in fringe scenarios. Getting accessibility in a great place for your users takes active effort - just like any other part of building your app. Because of this, we encourage you to do further research on the topic. Don't be afraid to ask questions of community members, either! Many in the community are incredibly helpful and friendly.

> Speaking of community, we'd love to hear your thoughts on this article. Did you learn something from it? Have questions about something A11Y-related? Think we missed something? [Join our Slack community](https://bit.ly/coderpad-slack) and chat with us or [send us a Tweet](https://twitter.com/coderpad)! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Speaking of community, we'd love to hear your thoughts on this article. Did you learn something from it? Have questions about something accessibility-related? Think we missed something? [Join our Slack community](https://bit.ly/coderpad-slack) and chat with us or [send us a Tweet](https://twitter.com/coderpad)! 
```

---
{
    title: "Introduction to Web Accessibility (A11Y)",
    description: "",
    published: '2021-05-30T22:12:03.284Z',
    authors: ['crutchcorn'],

>     tags: ['a11y', 'javascript', 'web'],

Reviewer 2: include accessibility, 508 tags
```suggestion
    tags: ['a11y', 'javascript', 'web', accessibility, 508],
```

Author: Wait, what's 508?

Reviewer 2: https://www.section508.gov/manage/laws-and-policies
the US laws regulating a large portion of  a11y

There are different scales of accessibility as well. [WCAG includes three different levels of conformance](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2AA-Conformance):

> - Level A is the minimum level.
> - Level AA includes all Level A and AA requirements. Many organizations strive to meet Level AA.
> - Level AAA includes all Level A, AA, and AAA requirements.

Meeting AA requirements is typically seen as a good commitment to accessibility, but AAA will open more doors to your users and is the gold standard for accessible user experience. 

Far from a comprehensive list, A requires:

- [Non-text content to have alternative text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#non-text-content)

> - [All content accessible with keyboard](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#keyboard)

Reviewer: Why did you choose to not have Pause Stop Hide? :(

Author: Legit no idea 😅😅😅 I was addressing the article feedback at 3AM and was bouncing back-and-forth between like two dozen things. I must've gotten my wires crossed somehow and thought these were the two you'd suggested

Happy to update to include this one - my bad!

Reviewer: Yay! I wanted to make sure that one folks learn about early

> Microsoft originally created this chart as part of their [Inclusive Toolkit](https://download.microsoft.com/download/b/0/d/b0d4bf87-09ce-4417-8f28-d60703d672ed/inclusive_toolkit_manual_final.pdf) manual

Creating an application that's accessible means that you're making a better experience for *all* of your users.

> In addition to both moral and financial incentives (by opening the door to more users), many organizations have a legal requirement to meet accessibility. U.S. government software is subject to [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/manage/laws-and-policies), which requires compliance to the [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (also known as WCAG, which we'll touch on later)](#wcag). Likewise, private US companies may be subject to compliance due to the "Americans with Disabilities Act" (shortened to "ADA"). The U.S. isn't the only country with these requirements, either. According to[ WCAG's reference page for various legal laws](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/), there are at least 40 such laws in place around the world.

Reviewer: Was this change back to your original text intentional?

Author: *sigh* Manually sync'ing docs + MD is hard. Thanks for the catch!

```suggestion
By making your services accessible to more people, you are most importantly making them more equitable, but there is often a business case for accessibility. Opening your doors to more users may create an additional financial incentive, and many organizations have a legal requirement to meet accessibility guidelines. For instance, the U.S. Federal Government is subject to [Section 508](https://www.section508.gov/manage/laws-and-policies), which requires compliance with [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (also known as WCAG, which we'll touch on later)](#wcag). Likewise, private US companies may be subject to compliance due to the "Americans with Disabilities Act" (shortened to "ADA"). The U.S. isn't the only country with these requirements, either. According to [WCAG's reference page for various legal laws](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/), there are at least 40 such laws in place around the world.
```

Far from a comprehensive list, A requires:

- [Non-text content to have alternative text](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#non-text-content)

> - [All content accessible with keyboard](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#keyboard)

Reviewer: Removing keyboard from level A as well?

Author: Yeah, this was intentional to avoid confusion with the mention of keyboard access for AAA

- `aria-valuemin` — The minimum allowed value in a numerical input
- `aria-valuemax` — The maximum allowed value of a numerical input

> Additional to `aria` props, [the `role` property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques#roles) allows to tell the browser what an element's intended purpose is, thus changing it's behavior with accessible tech. Again, this is a highly advanced (and often incorrectly deployed) API for complex apps. To learn more, [read through Mozilla's ARIA basics article.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/WAI-ARIA_basics)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional to `aria` props, [the `role` property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/ARIA_Techniques#roles) tells the browser what an element's intended purpose is, thus changing its behavior with accessible tech. Again, this is a highly advanced (and often incorrectly deployed) API for complex apps. To learn more, [read through Mozilla's ARIA basics article.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/WAI-ARIA_basics)
```
